SWB2 water budget model for Tutuila American Samoa


Abstract
A water budget approach using SWB2, a soil water-balance model, was applied to the island of Tutuila in American Samoa. The primary 
objective for the model was to calculate spatially and temporally distributed net-infiltration, which directly controls groundwater 
recharge rate. This information is essential for assessing water resources availability on islands such as Tutuila where groundwater 
makes up the majority of drinking and municipal water supplies. Other water budget components such as evapotranspiration, canopy 
interception, runoff, and mountain front recharge were also quantified with the SWB2 model for average present-day climate conditions. 
Additionally, the potential effects of future climate change on water resources availability were simulated by integrating dynamically 
downscaled climate predictions for 2080 to 2099 derived from externally supplied global climate model results. Notable improvements in 
this model over previously developed Tutuila water budget models include flow-routing based on land topography, inclusion of the mountain 
front recharge process, and consideration of direct net infiltration from anthropogenic sources such as on-site wastewater units and 
leaking water delivery lines. Model results indicated approximately 54% of Tutuila’s rainfall infiltrates as groundwater recharge, 8% is 
lost to canopy evaporation, another 15% is lost to evapotranspiration from soils, and 21% is removed through surface water features as 
stormflow-runoff. The model was able to simulate these processes with a high-spatial and temporal resolution with a 20 by 20 m grid-cell 
size, and a daily-resolution output time step. Climate scenarios suggested an increase in net-infiltration of 17 to 27% may be expected by
 the end of the century depending on the emissions scenario used.



Note that this version of the SWB2 model runs off of a fixed cell size. (100 m).
The cell size can be adjusted, and the input data inspected by looking at the releases tab on the ASPA-UH_Integrated_Modeling_Framework page

There is the SWB2_imput_file_generation.zip with all of the GIS data used to create input datasets, and the creation of these datasets, including the model cell size resolution can be modified 

This can be used by downloading and opening up the zip, it will run just like any other repository and will generate an input folder with input grids to be used in the SWB2 model. This whole folder can then be used to replace the input folder in the SWB2 model and it will automatically make all adjustmentes needed to run the model at the new cell size. 
(note that the GIS files contain some items that are larger than 100 mb, thus the reason it needs to be posted as a release and not as part of the model
